# Setting up a Julia Package

In Julia, packages are the natural medium for code that doesn't fit in a simple script or notebook.
While this might sound excessive at first, it provides many conveniences.
This page serves as a guide for creating your first Julia package. 
It walks you through the process of the initial setup and the structure of a Julia package. 

~~~
<h2>Table of Contents</h2>
~~~
\tableofcontents


## PkgTemplates.jl

[PkgTemplates.jl](https://github.com/JuliaCI/PkgTemplates.jl) 
is a highly configurable package for project templates.
Thanks to these templates, setting up the file structure for a Julia package takes seconds.  

We suggest you use the following template for your project work:

```julia
using PkgTemplates

template = Template(;
    user="YourGitHubUsername",
    authors="FirstName LastName <YourEmail@campus.tu-berlin.de>",
    julia=v"1.10",
    plugins=[
        License(; name="MIT"),
        Git(; manifest=false),
        Tests(; project=true),
        GitHubActions(; x64=true, extra_versions=[v"1.10"]),
        Codecov(),
        Documenter{GitHubActions}(),
    ],
)
```

~~~
<div class="admonition warning">
  <p class="admonition-title">⚠️ Don't just Copy & Paste ⚠️</p>
  <p>Make sure to customize the <code>user</code> and <code>authors</code> fields with your GitHub account,  name, and email address!</p>
</p>
</div>
~~~

~~~
<div class="admonition tip">
  <p class="admonition-title">Tip</p>
  <p>The template above was customized for the JuML project work at TU Berlin.</p>
  <p>Take a look at the
  <a href="https://juliaci.github.io/PkgTemplates.jl/stable/user/">PkgTemplates user guide</a>
  to create a template customized to your needs.
</p>
</div>
~~~

Let's go through this template step by step:
* `user`: the GitHub (or other hosting platform) account name under which the project is hosted
* `authors`: your authorship details 
* `julia=v"1.10"`: sets the minimum Julia version requirement to 1.10 for package compatibility.
    Usually, developers strive to support the last long-term support (LTS) release of Julia, which currently is 1.6.
    Since this is the first package we write, we only target 1.10. 
    Thanks to packages like [Compat.jl](https://github.com/JuliaLang/Compat.jl), backwards compatibility is usually easy to achieve.
  
We also use the following `plugins` to customize our template, most of which are defaults:
* `License(name="MIT")`: add the MIT License, which is permissive with minimal restrictions.
* `Git(manifest=false)`: initialize a Git repository and opt out of tracking the Manifest.
* `Test(; project=true)`: set up package testing and add a `Project.toml` for tests. 
* `GitHubActions()`: set up continuous integration (CI) via GitHub Actions to run our package tests.
* `Codecov()`: set up CodeCov to assess code coverage. This tells you how much of your code is covered by package tests.
* `Documenter{GitHubActions}()`: use [Documenter.jl](https://github.com/JuliaDocs/Documenter.jl) to generate package documentation. Build the documentation using GitHub and deploy it via [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/).
* `Formatter(; style="blue")`: tells JuliaFormatter.jl and the Julia VSCode extension 
  to use the [Blue code style](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/BlueStyle) for automatic code formatting 

After you created the template, run 
```julia-repl
julia> template("MyPackage")
```

At the end of the package generation, 
Julia will inform us that our project has been created in the `~/.julia/dev` folder:

```julia-repl
[ Info: New package is at ~/.julia/dev/MyPackage
```



## Project structure
Let's take a look at the structure of the files generated by PkgTemplates.jl by opening our project in VSCode.
The file explorer on the left should show the following files: 

```bash
├── .github
│   └── workflows
│       ├── CI.yml
│       ├── CompatHelper.yml
│       └── TagBot.yml
├── .gitignore
├── docs
│  ├── make.jl
│  ├── Manifest.toml
│  ├── Project.toml
│  └── src
│     └── index.md
├── LICENSE
├── Manifest.toml
├── Project.toml
├── README.md
├── src
│   └── MyPackage.jl
└── test
   ├── Manifest.toml
   ├── Project.toml
   └── runtests.jl

5 directories, 10 files
```

Let's go through this step by step:

* `README.md`: the "landing page" of your repository. Should describe what the code is about, link to your documentation and maybe give a usage example.
* `LICENSE`: the license you chose for your project, e.g. the MIT license
* `Project.toml` and `Manifest.toml`: you should already be familiar with these files, which [specify your package environment](/environments)
* `src`: your source code goes in here. The file named after your package is the "main" file.
* `test`: your package tests go in here. The `runtests.jl` is the "main" file of your tests.
* `docs`: your package documentation goes in here:
  * `make.jl`: the build 
* `.github/workflows`: the files in here specify GitHub Actions, commands that will be run on GitHub's remote computers.
  * `CI.yml`: runs your package tests, builds the documentation and computes code coverage.
  * `CompatHelper.yml`: automatically opens an issue when new versions of your dependencies have been released
  * `TagBot.yml`: automatically tags releases when using JuliaRegistrator (you can ignore this).
* `.gitignore`: specifies files you don't want to commit to Git, like the Manifest


!!! tip
    We will describe the project structure in more detail in the page on [Writing a Julia package](/write). 

## Further reading
* [PkgTemplates.jl documentation](https://juliaci.github.io/PkgTemplates.jl/stable/user/)
